we're joined Now by mansur Schuman he's
a can Unice resident and Canadian
citizen who chose to remain in Gaza to
report on the war thank you very much
for your time um firstly where are you
now and what's happening around
you I'm in nasar hospital nasar hospital
is basically a very big Refugee center
now it's also has a very big meia
presence with access to electricity
around the clock and an internet
connection to allow us to communicate
with the outside world continuously and
what are you seeing at nasad hospital
today on the second day after the
ceasefire
ended I'm seeing a continuous influx of
displaced civilians coming this time
from the eastern part of K Yunis where
the IDF has gone 100 meters into the
Gaza Strip inside Gara uh uh right now
uh if you come into R Hospital you will
find people from all over gazda strip
north east west south n hospital is now
slowly becoming the US shifa hospital I
believe where people from all over the
city are coming and and seeing it as the
refugee Center for them everywhere you
will find people trying to find a place
to sleep to set up a tent for their
families and patients trying to find
anyone to try to take care of them and
lying down on the hospital floors in
order to have something operated on or
something medication being applied on
there Mr Schuman it's interesting that
you're saying that NASA hospital has
become like the new Al shifer Hospital
which was gaza's largest medical
facility and was bombed
repeatedly Israel said that it did that
that it was bombing Al shiffer because
Hamas had a command center there now
Israel is saying that Hamas has a
Command Center in K Yunis where you are
which makes it a war zone how are people
there reacting to
that
yes yesterday Le were dropped on the
people telling is now considered a war
zone and that is dangerous and they
should
leave um people honestly have no no no
other place to go because if they decide
to leave ra no one there is no place
left in ra for them to stay in and they
believe that if if the IDF comes into
kanun and pushes people even further out
of then this means they will be forced
outside of which
means 1948 and
1967 thankfully until now the IDF didn't
say that n hospital has a command and
control center run by Hamas hence we
think that until now we are safe here
okay however several air strike
belts please
continue yeah several air strike belts
around Naser Hospital uh continue
throughout the day throughout last night
something which we didn't um we didn't
feel we didn't hear we didn't see in the
first 50 days we feel it's a different
kind of escalation now happening on KH
unun even though before the ceasefire
44% of the casualties from the south
which was regarded as safe by the IDF
but now we are seeing full force uh
missile strikes from the air from the
Easter the land from the from the tanks
on the land and from the warships in the
sea continuous strikes here onun I think
you heard the latest news about for
example Med hammed hammed City which uh
which
basically was assisted and helped re
build by the
government yeah Mr Schuman what you're
describing unfolding around you why did
you decide to risk your life and stay in
Gaza when you are a foreign National you
could have left
uh it's a privilege it's an honor to be
here it's it's my duty uh it's my
religious it's my humanitarian duty to
be here if everyone uh uh leaves then
who will stay to help the people here uh
2.3 million Palestinian civilians here
are all my family the free people of the
world are all my family the people here
in are not just standing for
Palestinians they are standing for the
truth they are standing for what's right
they believe in positive change not only
for people in razza but for the whole
world these are the values that we stand
up for and we believe that we need to
strive for and as long as I have a soul
and a heart pumping in my heart I will
continue my duty to getting the truth
out and helping the people on the ground
in any means possible together with many
thousands of other volunteers here on
the ground Mr Shuman we thank you very
much for your time we wish you all the
best that is Mansour Shuman live and
kind
Unice